Add ISO8583-inbound-endpoint-example.md (#1286)
wso2/docs-ei: en/micro-integrator/docs/references/connectors/ISO8583-connector/ISO8583-inbound-endpoint-example.md

# ISO8583 Inbound Endpoint Example

> The ISO8583 inbound endpoint of WSO2 EI acts as a message consumer. The ISO8583 inbound endpoint supported via the WSO2 EI is a listening inbound endpoint that can consume ISO8583 standard messages. 

Reviewer: Add some summary of what this scenario is about.

Author: Added.

## What you'll build

> This sample demonstrates how the ISO8583 inbound endpoint working as ISO8583 message consumer. In this scenario to generate ISO8583 messages we used sample java client programme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario demonstrates how the ISO8583 inbound endpoint works as an ISO8583 message consumer. In this scenario, to generate ISO8583 messages we use a sample Java client program.
```

Author: Updated.

> The ISO8583 inbound endpoint listens on port 5000 and acts as a ISO8583 standard message consumer. When a sample java client connects on port 5000, the ISO8583 inbound endpoint consumes ISO8583 standard messages, converts the messages to XML format, and then injects messages to a sequence into the WSO2 EI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ISO8583 inbound endpoint listens on port 5000 and acts as a ISO8583 standard message consumer. When a sample Java client connects on port 5000, the ISO8583 inbound endpoint consumes ISO8583 standard messages, converts the messages to XML format, and then injects messages to a sequence into WSO2 EI.
```

Author: Updated.

> See [ISO8583 connector configuration](ISO8583-connector-configuration.md) for more information.However, for simplicity of this example, we will just log the message. You can extend the sample as required using WSO2 EI mediators. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [ISO8583 connector configuration](ISO8583-connector-configuration.md) for more information. However, for simplicity of this example, we will just log the message. You can extend the sample as required using WSO2 EI mediators. 
```

Shall we add some link here on how to extend the sample using mediators?

Author: Added following link to the refer mediators [1].
[1] https://docs.wso2.com/display/EI660/ESB+Mediators

The following diagram illustrates all the required functionality of the ISO8583 inbound operations that you are going to build. 

> <img src="/assets/img/connectors/ISO8583-inbound-operations.png" title="ISO8583 inbound operations" width="800" alt="ISO8583 inbound operations"/>

Reviewer: Add some explanation of this diagram and what is happening here.

Author: Added.

## Configure inbound endpoint using WSO2 Integration Studio

> 1. Download [WSO2 Integration Studio](https://wso2.com/integration/integration-studio/). Create an **ESB Solution Project** as below. 

Reviewer: Need to update this and the image as well. It is now called "Integration Project" in the latest tooling pack.

Author: Updated.

<img src="/assets/img/connectors/solution-project.png" title="Creating a new ESB Solution Project" width="800" alt="Creating a new ESB Solution Project" />

2. Right click on **Source** -> **main** -> **synapse-config** -> **inbound-endpoints** and add a new **custom inbound endpoint**.</br> 
<img src="/assets/img/connectors/db-event-inbound-ep.png" title="Creating DB event inbound endpoint" width="400" alt="Creating DB event inbound endpoint" style="border:1px solid black"/>

3. Click on **Inbound Endpoint** in design view and under `properties` tab, update class name to `org.wso2.carbon.inbound.iso8583.listening.ISO8583MessageConsumer`. 

> 4. Navigate to source view and update it with following config as required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Navigate to the source view and update it with the following configuration as required. 
```

Author: Updated.

       <log level="full">
           <property name="Log_Message for ISO8583 Inbound Endpoint" value="Message received from sample1-source"/>
       </log>
   </sequence>
   ```
## Exporting Integration Logic as a CApp

**CApp (Carbon Application)** is the deployable artefact on the Enterprise Integrator runtime. Let us see how we can export integration logic we developed into a CApp. To export the `Solution Project` as a CApp, a `Composite Application Project` needs to be created. Usually, when a solution project is created, this project is automatically created by Integration Studio. If not, you can specifically create it by navigating to  **File** -> **New** -> **Other** -> **WSO2** -> **Distribution** -> **Composite Application Project**. 

1. Right click on Composite Application Project and click on **Export Composite Application Project**.</br> 
  <img src="/assets/img/connectors/capp-project1.png" title="Export as a Carbon Application" width="300" alt="Export as a Carbon Application" />

2. Select an **Export Destination** where you want to save the .car file. 

> 3. In the next **Create a deployable CAR file** screen, select inbound endpoint and sequence artifacts and click **Finish**. The CApp will get created at the specified location provided at the previous step. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the next **Create a deployable CAR file** screen, select inbound endpoint and sequence artifacts and click **Finish**. The CApp will get created at the specified location provided in the previous step. 
```

Author: Updated.

## Deployment

> 1. Navigate to [connector store](https://store.wso2.com/store/assets/esbconnector/list) and search for `ISO8583`. Click on `ISO8583 Inbound Endpoint` and download the jar file by clicking on `Download Inbound Endpoint`. Copy this jar file into  <PRODUCT-HOME>/lib folder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [connector store](https://store.wso2.com/store/assets/esbconnector/list) and search for `ISO8583`. Click on `ISO8583 Inbound Endpoint` and download the .jar file by clicking on `Download Inbound Endpoint`. Copy this .jar file into  <PRODUCT-HOME>/lib folder. 
```

Author: Updated.

> 2. Download `jpos-1.9.4.jar`, `jdom-1.1.3.jar`, `commons-cli-1.3.1.jar` and add it to <PRODUCT-HOME>/lib folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Download `jpos-1.9.4.jar`, `jdom-1.1.3.jar`, and `commons-cli-1.3.1.jar` and add it to <PRODUCT-HOME>/lib folder.
```
From where do we download these files?

Author: Added link for each jar files. 
Already mentioned that links in ISO8583-connector-configuration.md file also.

3. Copy the exported carbon application to the <PRODUCT-HOME>/repository/deployment/server/carbonapps folder. 

> 4. Start the server 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Start the server. 
```
Add content on how to start the server.

Author: Added following link[1].
[1] https://docs.wso2.com/display/EI660/Running+the+Product

## Testing  

> 1. Run Test Client programme. Use a ISO8583 standard message as input;

Reviewer: Can we add some information on how to run this?

Author: That section already mentioned in ISO8583-connector-configuration.md file. In the real world scenario we do not need a Test Client programme. If we have ISO8583 sever we can directly consume messages using that.

   ```
   0200B220000100100000000000000002000020134500000050000001115221801234890610000914XYRTUI5269TYUI021ABCDEFGHIJ 1234567890 
   ```
   
   **Expected respons**
   
   ```   
   [2020-03-26 15:47:26,003]  INFO {org.apache.synapse.mediators.builtin.LogMediator} - To: , MessageID: urn:uuid:FB34DB1FB26FB57D561585217845823, Direction: request, Log_Message for ISO8583 Inbound Endpoint = Message received from sample1-source, Envelope: 
   <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
   <soapenv:Envelope xmlns:soapenv="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">
      <soapenv:Body>
         <ISOMessage>
            <header>AHc=</header>
            <data>
               <field id="0">0200</field>
               <field id="3">201345</field>
               <field id="4">000000500000</field>
               <field id="7">0111522180</field>
               <field id="11">123489</field>
               <field id="32">100009</field>
               <field id="44">XYRTUI5269TYUI</field>
               <field id="111">ABCDEFGHIJ 1234567890</field>
            </data>
         </ISOMessage>
      </soapenv:Body>
   </soapenv:Envelope>  
   ```   

>    ## What's next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ## What's next
```

Author: Updated.

# ISO8583 Inbound Endpoint Example

> In real world financial scenarios happening among thousands of banking systems and networks. In this situation, one system need to act as a message publisher and another system need to capable of receiving them. Once receive the message if further processing actions performed based on the logics which are implemented in the internal system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the real world, financial scenarios are happening among thousands of banking systems and networks. In this situation, one system needs to act as a message publisher and another system needs to be capable of receiving messages. Once the message is received, further processing actions are performed based on the logic that is implemented in the internal system.
```

Author: Updated.

> The ISO8583 inbound endpoint of WSO2 EI acts as a message consumer. The ISO8583 inbound endpoint supported via the WSO2 EI is a listening inbound endpoint that can consume ISO8583 standard messages.Then converts the messages to XML format, and then injects messages to a sequence in WSO2 EI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ISO8583 inbound endpoint of WSO2 EI acts as a message consumer. The ISO8583 inbound endpoint supported via the WSO2 EI is a listening inbound endpoint that can consume ISO8583 standard messages. It then converts the messages to XML format and injects messages to a sequence in WSO2 EI.
```

Author: Updated.

## What you'll build

This scenario demonstrates how the ISO8583 inbound endpoint works as an ISO8583 message consumer. In this scenario, to generate ISO8583 messages we use a sample Java client program.In here inside the banking network functionality simulates using the test client program.

The ISO8583 inbound endpoint listens on port 5000 and acts as a ISO8583 standard message consumer. When a sample Java client connects on port 5000, the ISO8583 inbound endpoint consumes ISO8583 standard messages, converts the messages to XML format, and then injects messages to a sequence into WSO2 EI.

> See [ISO8583 connector configuration](ISO8583-connector-configuration.md) for more information.However, for simplicity of this example, we will just log the message. You can extend the sample as required using WSO2 [EI mediators](https://docs.wso2.com/display/EI660/ESB+Mediators). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [ISO8583 connector configuration](ISO8583-connector-configuration.md) for more information. However, for simplicity of this example, we will just log the message. You can extend the sample as required using WSO2 [EI mediators](https://docs.wso2.com/display/EI660/ESB+Mediators). 
```

Shall we update this link to point to 7.0.0 docs?

Author: Updated.

The following diagram illustrates all the required functionality of the ISO8583 inbound operations that you are going to build. 

> For example, while transferring banks and financial sector information using the ISO85883 message format among the banking networks the message receiving can be done by using inbound endpoints. In here ISO8583 inbound endpoint of WSO2 EI act as an ISO8583 message receiver. Then you can inject that message into the mediation flow for getting the required output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, while transferring bank and financial sector information using the ISO85883 message format among the banking networks, the message receiving can be done by using inbound endpoints. The ISO8583 inbound endpoint of WSO2 EI acts as an ISO8583 message receiver. You can inject that message into the mediation flow for getting the required output.
```

Author: Updated.

<img src="/assets/img/connectors/ISO8583-inbound-operations.png" title="ISO8583 inbound operations" width="800" alt="ISO8583 inbound operations"/>

## Configure inbound endpoint using WSO2 Integration Studio

1. Download [WSO2 Integration Studio](https://wso2.com/integration/integration-studio/). Create an **Integration Project** as below. 

> <img src="/assets/img/connectors/solution-project.png" title="Creating a new Integration Project" width="800" alt="Creating a new Integration Project" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="/assets/img/connectors/integration-project.png" title="Creating a new Integration Project" width="800" alt="Creating a new Integration Project" />
```

Author: Updated.

  <img src="/assets/img/connectors/capp-project1.png" title="Export as a Carbon Application" width="300" alt="Export as a Carbon Application" />

2. Select an **Export Destination** where you want to save the .car file. 

3. In the next **Create a deployable CAR file** screen, select inbound endpoint and sequence artifacts and click **Finish**. The CApp will get created at the specified location provided in the previous step. 

## Deployment

1. Navigate to the [connector store](https://store.wso2.com/store/assets/esbconnector/list) and search for `ISO8583`. Click on `ISO8583 Inbound Endpoint` and download the .jar file by clicking on `Download Inbound Endpoint`. Copy this .jar file into  <PRODUCT-HOME>/lib folder. 

2. Download [jpos-1.9.4.jar]((http://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jpos/jpos/1.9.4)), [jdom-1.1.3.jar]((http://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jdom/jdom/1.1.3), and [commons-cli-1.3.1.jar]((http://mvnrepository.com/artifact/commons-cli/commons-cli/1.3.1) and add it to <PRODUCT-HOME>/lib folder.

3. Copy the exported carbon application to the <PRODUCT-HOME>/repository/deployment/server/carbonapps folder. 

> 4. [Start the WSO2 EI server](https://docs.wso2.com/display/EI660/Running+the+Product). 

Reviewer: Shall we point to 7.0.0 docs here?

Author: Pointed to https://ei.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/micro-integrator/overview/quick-start-guide/#start-the-micro-integrator.

The ISO8583 inbound endpoint listens on port 5000 and acts as a ISO8583 standard message consumer. When a sample java client connects on port 5000, the ISO8583 inbound endpoint consumes ISO8583 standard messages, converts the messages to XML format, and then injects messages to a sequence into the WSO2 EI.

See [ISO8583 connector configuration](ISO8583-connector-configuration.md) for more information.

The following diagram illustrates all the required functionality of the ISO8583 inbound operations that you are going to build. 

<img src="/assets/img/connectors/ISO8583-inbound-operations.png" title="ISO8583 inbound operations" width="800" alt="ISO8583 inbound operations"/>

## Configure the connector in WSO2 Integration Studio

Follow these steps to set up the ESB Solution Project and the Connector Exporter Project.

{!references/connectors/importing-connector-to-integration-studio.md!}

1. Right click on the created ESB Solution Project and select, -> New -> Inbound Endpoint to create the Inbound Endpoint.

> 

Reviewer 2: When we keep spaces here sometimes mkdocs does not continue the numbered list. Please check.

Author: Updated.

Author: Replace the content from the mentioned PR.

   ```
   <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><inboundEndpoint xmlns="http://ws.apache.org/ns/synapse" name="custom_listener" sequence="requestISO" onError="fault" class="org.wso2.carbon.inbound.iso8583.listening.ISO8583MessageConsumer" suspend="false">
       <parameters>
           <parameter name="inbound.behavior">listening</parameter>
           <parameter name="sequential">true</parameter>
           <parameter name="coordination">true</parameter>
           <parameter name="port">5000</parameter>
           <parameter name="headerLength">2</parameter>
           <parameter name="isProxy">false</parameter>
       </parameters>
   </inboundEndpoint>
   ```

>    Sequence

Reviewer 2: Sequence to process the message. 

In this example for simplicity we will just log the message, but in a real world use case, this can be any type of message mediation.

Author: Updated.

   ```
   <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><sequence xmlns="http://ws.apache.org/ns/synapse" name="requestISO" onError="fault">
       <log level="full">
           <property name="Log_Message for ISO8583 Inbound Endpoint" value="Message received from sample1-source"/>
       </log>
   </sequence>
   ```
Now we can export the imported connector and the API into a single CAR application. CAR application is the one we are going to deploy to server runtime.

> {!references/connectors/exporting-artifacts.md !}

Reviewer 2: We cannot point here. Common doc has some un-relevant content.

Reviewer 2: Please refer https://github.com/wso2/docs-ei/pull/1288

Author: Updated doc based on the mentioned pull request.

## Deployment
Follow these steps to deploy the exported CApp in the Enterprise Integrator Runtime. 

> {!references/connectors/deploy-capp.md!}

Reviewer 2: This does not work here. For example, 
We need to copy inbound jar to lib. Better write the steps here itself.

Reviewer 2: Please refer : https://github.com/wso2/docs-ei/pull/1288

Author: Updated doc based on the mentioned pull request.
